Email cin@lists.cinelerra-gg.org 4 help.
For usage help, refer to the following:
  https://cinelerra-gg.org/download/CinelerraGG_Manual.pdf
  http://g-raffa.eu/Cinelerra/HOWTO/basics.html
.
2022 February changes of note:
  Updated libraries: libvpx, libogg, tiff, and fftw to current.
2022 January changes of note:
  This month has only had minor changes and fixes added.
2021 New Features of note:
  Context Help has been added using hotkey alt/h by Georgy. The
    help page will come up in your web browser tab for the item 
    most relevant to where Alt/h used on a menu, plugin, button,
    icon, transition, window, or tooltip. Additional information:
    /https://cinelerra-gg.org/download/CinelerraGG_Manual/Troubleshooting_Help.html
  The manual can now be used in HTML format besides PDF.
  AppImage is now the method of distributing new releases;
    Newer distros use:
      CinGG-20210331-x86_64.AppImage 
      CinGG-20211231-multibit.AppImage
    Older distros use:
      CinGG-20210331-x86_64-older_distros.AppImage
      CinGG-20211231-x86-64-older_distros-multibit.AppImage
    32-bit distros use:
      CinGG-20211231-i386.AppImage            
      CinGG-20211231-i386-newer_distros.AppImage  
  Procedures to build for Android tablet/phone using Termux and
    for aarch64 have been proven and partially documented.
  The following libraries have been upgraded to newer versions:
    ffmpeg to 4.4; libjpeg-turbo to version 2.1.2; x264; x265;
    libaom to v3.2.0 and may be faster; openjpeg to 2.4.0.
  Render formats have been added or improved to include:
    Cineform, DPX, mxf, miscellaneous FFmpeg video/audio;
    and high fps rendering formats added for over 60 fps.
  Plugin changes and additions:
    Speed PerCent plugin for easily changing speed added.
    Posterize and Timelapse Helper are new plugins.
    The update of ffmpeg, included several new plugins.
    Improvements have been made to the LV2 plugin code that
      makes it more robust and prevents crashes on startup.
    15 plugin GUIs are visually improved and minor changes.
  FAST_SPEED and SLOW_SPEED variables to personalize your
    playback speed have been added.
  YUV Colorspace 601 and 2020 have been split into more
    available options of 601 NTSC/PAL and 2020 NCL/CL.
  Autosave backups optional feature in Preferences added.
  Batch Render menu now has hidden feature to avoid mistakes.
.
2020 New Features of note:
  Drag select and deselect edits was added on the timeline.
  Tile mixers allows for designating a rectangular area.
  Motion plugin improvements by SGE for better results.
  Faster transition playing with cache + drag capable.
  Bump Autos new feature; especially useful for speed.
  Language preference now in Settings->Preferences.
  Added drag speed highlighting for easier usage of auto.
  Option and shortcut to select multiple edits.
  Align Timecodes for various timecodes/stamps is available.
  Subtitles can be generated in either SRT, SUB, or uDVD form.
  Mix masters make it easy to use multicam mode on timeline.
  Ganging modes added for DAW-like editing of channels.
  Rotate plugin has been modernized and improved.
  Audio track height button added, separate from video height.
  New patchbay toggle to vary individual vertical track height.
  Potential Performance improvements added.
  New way of creating and using a stack of Effects.
  Additional ShapeWipe transitions are now available.
  BoxBlur plugin allows forjust blurring an area.
  Videoscope is now on the Compositor and Viewer.
  Several new Shape Wipe transitions are included.
  New ColorSpace plugin to convert color space/range.
  Updated 17 thirdparty libraries to keep up to date.
  Rewrote and replaced OGG/Theora/Vorbis file codec.
  PulseAudio option is now built in as audio choice.
  Updated reference Manual using LaTeX now complete.
  File by Reference capability now available.
.
2019 New Features of note:
  Edit EDLs feature added for easily editing nested EDLs.
  OTA TV support for Happauge 1657 Dual USB device recording.
  Audio improvements added for playback/speed/sampling.
  Spanish, Russian, French, and German translations updated.
  Transcode 1:1 added to convert to a different format.
  Compositor zoom using the wheel & panning is available.
  Scaling for any size monitor now available in Preferences.
  Improved and new transitions and plugins to include:
    Tracer, Crop & Position, Compressor Multi, Alpha, Foreground.
  Libraries updated for FFmpeg, libvpx, x264, x265, and Dav1d.
  Major improvements for Masking in the Compositor.
  Camera and Projector menu and usage improvements added.
  Hardware acceleration capabilities added to include:
    nvenc for nvidia boards, vdapu and vaapi hardware, + cuda.
  Additional options for Preview mode in Resources window.
  Named layouts for easier identification purposes.
  Capability for ShuttlePro/Xpress usage has been added.
  Insert Mixers for multiple cameras general improvements added.
.
2018 New Features of note:
  Inter-View mode / Identifying Source Targets added.
  Cut and Paste behavior added; right mouse button on clip.
  Grouping and ungrouping possibilities in Arrow mode,
  Color titles and media with changable colors and alpha.
  Change thumbnail size, vicon memory usage and color mode.
  Preview window zoom scale for vicons in Resources window.
  Sketcher plugin newly added to "pencil in" lines/curves.
  Window layout save and load feature added - total of 4.
  Title plugin has unlimited number of characters allowed.
  Histogram Bezier bug fixes and some improvements applied.
  Trim Feature enhancement with drag handle and split look.
  Dynamic keyframes implemented so can use large numbers.
  Color correction+others highlighted with expand subtrees.
  Motion plugins now have more visible stippled lines.
  Neophyte theme and German translations compliments of Olaf.
  Bins/Folders added for organizing media.
  Preview capability with Mouse Over and vicon tweaks.
  Find in Resources, User title, and Show edit options added.
  Added Display packed icons and Display icon list in Resources.
  LV2 Audio plugins have been hooked in to include Calf, X42, +.
  Unbundled build scripts are now available and tested a few.
  OpenCV FindObj updated and StyleObj, PuzzleObj added.
  Perpetual Session preference and 1 extra backup.
  Speed automation will now update the track duration.
  Can now Paste Silence a single frame at hairline cursor.
  Audio waveform partial image will show in the Viewer.
  Loop play added in Viewer and Compositor.
  Mouse play action implemented in Viewer/Compositor.
  Nested EDLs are now available and automatically render.
  Raw Video (yuv/rgb) and raw audio available.
  Audio waveform icons, color coded, in Resources Media.
  Allowance for piped file usage has been added.
  2 Pass option for VP9/webm added.
.
2017 New Features of note:
  Many plugin icons and other new icons modernized by Sam.
  Mixer Viewer for multiple media/cameras was added.
  Blade cut and hard edges are now available.
  Snap/Cut editing and snap while dragging stickiness.
  New plugins of CriKey, Motion51 and HistEq added.
  Perspective/BlueBanana/C41 plugins were fixed/improved.
  Grabshot/Snapshot new options for screen grab/shot.
  Colorspace & Color range improvements for BT601/709/2020.
  HV7 mods merged in to include X11 Direct playback.
  Alternative shortcut keys for computers without numpad.
  Search box in the Resources window to narrow choices.
  Proxy Editing added to Settings pulldown.
  OpenCV optional compile with 4 plugins now available.
  Shortcuts.html added to shell cmds icon for easy view.
  Faststart option added for Mp4 and QT ffmpeg format.
  Probe Order preference added for flexibility.
  Dcraw program updated to latest Coffin version.
  Zoom bar in compositor handles any size.
  Upgraded FFMPEG to 3.3 + other 3rd party libraries.
  Title plugin major changes to include:
   ColorPicker added, fast Font selection,
   Stroker for fonts added, BC_FONT_PATH.
   Drag with 9 different handles, Background
     video, individual character attributes of
     Color, Size, Font, Underline, Bold, Italic,
     Caps, Blink, Alpha, Nudge, Sup(erscript,
     subscript), and PNG inclusion + Rt. Click.
   Now handles 3071 characters and a count provided.
  Bluray creation improved & allows for non-root usage.
  Unicode characters can be put into textbox.
  Smooth Lines create near-perfect circles/curves.
